and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show delighted to be joined by my
friend john foshee today
john is the co-founder and chief revenue
officer at porter logistics they offer
flexible
third-party logistic services to
startups right through to large-scale
enterprise clients john a warm welcome
sir how's it going mate
hi thanks for having me on sam really
really really appreciate it
no worries dude so this is going to be a
hugely valuable episode i am sure for
both
myself and everyone that's tuning in
today so we're talking all about
how you can bootstrap a startup um we're
cutting out the we want to
actually get in because i know john
you've actually done it yourself with
your partner you've built it from the
ground up
so you've been there you've done it um i
haven't i came into a business fairly
later
once it had been developed so i came on
board as a founder a few years in so
this is going to be really really useful
um so we'll be talking all about how um
things to think about how you can
leverage marketing how can you leverage
your sales and perhaps there's going to
be a lot of things in fact i'm sure
there will
that people don't necessarily think
about until they actually get stuck in
stuck into the nuts and bolts and the
nooks and crannies of building a
business so
first things first john what do we need
to think about before we even start
before we even get stuck into our
business what should be
what should we be planning for you know
i think the first thing i would advise
is if you're reading
you know management books and peter
drucker and good to great
zero to one you know put them down
uh you know the consultant i come from
the consulting world
you know there are a lot there's a lot
of great advice for organizations that
have already existed for you know 50
years
they've got a billion dollars on the p l
uh they've got huge organizations
supporting them
you know when you're bootstrapping a
startup you know you need to throw all
the rules out the window
and really you know get back to basics
you know i think
uh starting uh starting a company on one
zone is really really hard the vast
majority of
uh you know great companies usually
started with two or at least three
people truly a founding team and so i
think you know
if you're thinking about starting a
company and you're looking for a partner
uh you really need to have a lot of
thought into
the partnership what the each of you
bring to the table
ideally you have complementary skill
sets
and most importantly you trust each
other
ultimately you want to think about what
does the management team
ideally need to be good at need to think
about what your skill set is
and then how do you two fit together my
background
is management consulting but
specifically a marketing strategy
marketing analytics marketing
measurements kind of on the technology
side as well
so my role as the chief revenue officer
was sort of a natural fit right because
it fit my skill set
where i was weak or weaker you know
comparatively was
you know financials uh creating the
business plan
um thinking about cash flow thinking
about
runway having you know financial
connections in terms of you know raising
money
and that's where my partner rob is our
ceo and a close friend of mine
from uh college you know ultimately
decided that we didn't really have any
overlapping skill sets
we both think very differently which you
know invites conflict at times
but at the end of the day if you're a
management team and you both agree with
each other
all the time on everything the odds of
your success are going to be much much
lower
ultimately good outcome comes through
productive conflicts
and then you know being able to resolve
those amicably
uh you know and sort of get through to
an ultimately what
what the market wants yeah yeah yeah it
makes sense so
do you think you you mentioned there
having having almost um because in your
case john you had a co-founder do you
think everyone needs
someone else that they can bounce ideas
off that perhaps covers
strengths where they've got weaknesses
and someone that can basically like you
said slap you into shape
if if you're perhaps not not really too
sure on a certain subject you think one
idea is great when someone might have
kind of strengths in other areas and
kind of
be back in line uh 100
and i think history proves that out i
mean everybody thinks steve jobs when
they think apple
everybody forgets that he had steve
wozniak right
jobs was the visionary wozniak was the
technology guy
everybody thinks that mark zuckerberg
right was the you know true founder of
facebook but if you even watch the
social network
the whole movie is premised on the fact
that he had a partner or two
you know depending on who's interpreting
it you know whether they were treated
well or not
but you know a lot of these great you
know
entrepreneurs that are celebrated across
the globe
they all had co-founders that really
brought something different to the table
zuckerberg was a coder uh what's his
face i can't even remember his name he
was the financial guy
steve jobs the visionary wozniak the
tech guy so i really believe in that
at minimum one co-founder potentially
even three and i really believe that
uh you have to both think very
differently you need to bring different
skill sets to the table that's
ultimately gonna you know enable you to
build a more productive company
interesting okay and playing to your
strengths by the sounds of it because
you said you
you knew that you were strong in
marketing and you knew that your partner
was good in sales so that's
that almost sounds like a winning
combination if you've got those two
things nailed
then that's that's going to be a good
starting point exactly
exactly you have to have someone who uh
who has the big ideas and you have to
have someone who covers the details
um so yeah absolutely nice
okay and then pushing it forward so when
i've talked about
starting up businesses on the podcast
with past guests there's been all sorts
of
kind of talk about when you should focus
in on a product or service
um and a lot of the a lot of the things
that seem to ring through is it needs to
be something that you're
either passionate about the product or
the outcome that it provides for your
customer
are you kind of the same john it needs
to be something like that otherwise
there's no longevity in
in it or when when someone's thinking of
starting a business like you have
do you what what are some of the things
they need to kind of bear in their mind
sure make sure it has got a long term um
sustainable mindset you know i'll i'll
talk about passion and product in just a
second but i think sure thinking for the
long
term one of the things that really
doesn't get covered in a management book
or that people don't think of is
when you're raising money and trying to
bootstrap the company
what direction you want to go there's
really two options
one you can actually try to bootstrap it
yourself which is
dipping into your own cash reserves
hitting up a friend
a family member ex-colleagues you know
so on and so forth
you can go that route it's going to take
you a long time to raise the money
it's going to be considerably harder and
more difficult on you
uh but the upside is you know you'll
ultimately
control the company for much longer if
you do end up taking institutional
rounds um
you know the pro is again you retain
control farther into the future
you know the downside is if your startup
goes to zero
and ninety percent of startups do end up
failing you have to be
okay with the idea of looking your your
mom your friend
your dad your ex-boss hey
i lost all your money and you got to
come hat in hand and some people can't
handle that stress
right like and that's totally fine
everyone's different
everyone has different priorities um the
other option is
go the institutional route i want to go
vc you know maybe i'm pre-revenue i've
got an idea or i've got a concept off
the ground
you can go to vc they're going to take a
much bigger chunk up front and it's
likely
after round two or three you're going to
lose control of the board
but you're going to be able to scale
faster you're going to have a little bit
bigger war chest to start with and to
invest in and make mistakes
and if it does go to zero you know i'm
not saying that it doesn't it wouldn't
hurt
but at the end of the day you don't have
a personal relationship and so
it's a business transaction you know you
just sort of wave wave to each other as
you pass each other in the night and you
know it's no harm no foul so
it sounds like it's a minor thing but
you should really really give
consideration and understand the
implications of
do i try to bootstrap it it's going to
be much harder on myself
you're going to put yourself through
some pain and it's going to take a long
time
or longer time excuse me to scale or do
i go that institutional route
and maybe speed up right progress
but you know maybe give up some things
on the back end
yeah yeah i mean it's it's a tough one
right and
even if you think you want to go the
funding route getting vc money isn't
that easy
as far as i know so it's correct well
these gc is not guaranteed
no it's not guaranteed um you know
there's a lot of a lot of it is network
a lot of it is polish you know vcs have
an idea of
um one of the things that vcs don't talk
about you know they want to believe in
the product
they want to believe that you're very um
you know
revolutionary run and whatever you're
doing but the other thing that they're
thinking of
is uh is this person
backable is he or she somebody that i
can go
take on a road show to you know a
private equity fund
a growth equity fund somewhere like
longer down the line with bigger pockets
because ultimately that's how i as a vc
i'm going to make my money right i'm
going to get bought out
and so one of the things they're
thinking of is is this person polished
can i put them in front of a big room uh
ultimately
can i really sell them and the company
at a later date so
um again one of those things i know this
is sort of the the no bs
podcast so i'm trying to provide some
context of things that you don't you
don't really hear in the management
books
yeah i think you've laid down the both
options quite nicely really because
you've said look there's a lot of stress
and a lot of things could go wrong if
you fund it yourself
because if you're taking other people's
money ultimately if it all goes to
to dress then you've gotta explain to
them when when everything's gone south
uh exactly then likewise if you go the
venture capitalist route you've you've
gotta
lose a potential big amount of the
percentage of ownership of the company
and hand that over to
whoever takes it on board so good things
to consider
um okay and then once we've once we've
nailed down
what way we want to go in terms of
actually funding this thing
how do we go about um and perhaps we can
keep this kind of fairly short and sweet
before we get into the nuts and bolts of
marketing yourselves how do we go about
kind of really planning our idea and i
know
you were going to come on to kind of
thinking a long-term mindset and stuff
like that so yeah what things should we
think about before we actually kick this
thing off and
kind of get stuck into it full time or
do we go full time do we keep part-time
our other
nine-to-five job you know i think um
the trap that founders uh
fall into is that to be an entrepreneur
you do have to have
at some level a little bit of an ego and
a little bit of confidence
right that says you know i'm gonna
create something
out of nothing the trap that you fall
into though for that type of personality
is
i have an idea of what i want the
company to be and what i think people
will
want and a lot of founders fall on the
trap of this is my idea
and they keep trying to push the company
in their original idea or conception
what you should be doing is what does
the market want
i'm listening to my customers i may have
an idea
i may have a great idea but when i float
it to
potential customers or we get our first
couple in
they're giving me feedback that like
yeah this is like nice
but you know what would be really cool
right is is x or y
and sort of being able to put your ego
aside
be able to actually listen to the market
and form your company that way as
opposed to
thinking that you've got the idea all
figured out before you actually
go build the company so you have to have
some structure you have to have a thesis
you have to have an idea
but my advice to any early stage founder
would be
listen listen shut up you know i know
like you're enamored with yourself
and your pitch deck and you know
everything you've gone on the road and
told people with but
listen to customers you may find answers
that you maybe weren't expecting
um a good example is you know we had a
good idea of what our pricing model
was going to be it was going to be by
the item it was going to be
revolutionary it turns out nobody wanted
that
right so they they loved our concept you
know we got validation of our concept
when we
sort of floated the idea people said oh
my god that's that's that's brilliant
like i can't believe no one's doing that
and that that was validation that
the idea at least was good but when we
got into the actual execution
of it you know maybe what we thought or
how it could be executed was actually
much different than
what what resonated with with customers
so my biggest advice would be
listen put your ego aside and listen
love that point
something i rant on about all the time
actually when it comes to web design
digital marketing in that front
is that flipping it to this is that
people
often when it comes to their own sites
will design it on what they think looks
great
so they'll be like yeah this website is
going to look good because i i
personally like this design
and i've seen all these sites that are
really really cool but ultimately just
like you've said there john it matters
what the market thinks so it matters
what
your potential clients your idle
customers that are actually going to be
using the site
or in this case the product of your
business it matters what they think
because they're going to be ones using
it you're not the customer you're not
the one that's going to be
dealing with them you're not going to be
talking to sales you're not going to be
buying this product or making inquiries
so
that's that's such sound advice is there
um
how would you advise people actually go
about doing that in a tangible way
should they bring up an mvp
and then start offering that uh
prospects or is there a strategy that
you recommend
yeah so i think before you even get to
that step i would
uh schedule some time with friends and
family mentors
um and ultimately try to set up some
some interviews to actually sort of
pitch the idea and just sort of
use them as a sounding board uh you know
you know that the
idea is not really developed you know it
could be a vague concept or it could be
close to developed but at the end of the
day you really want to
talk to people in your network uh to get
feedback and validation that it that in
fact is is something good i mean i think
a lot of people
like i said they just sort of are
enamored with their own idea and they
just pull through it without ever
getting validation it's something that
people want
um you know i think it's also important
to make sure that you interview
people who are ultimately going to be
your customers so like
yes you get some level of feedback from
mom and dad
but you have to also consider that uh
they're biased right your friends your
family your personal network
they're going to be less uh or they're
going to be reticent to
ultimately tell you that you know that
idea is trash right or
you know that's maybe you know hey
that's kind of good maybe you should
look over here oh yeah they
they love you right and your friend is
such a good point and i was having a bit
of a debate
again bring it back to digital marketing
someone was saying to me well you could
just
interview your friends and family about
um launching a website or a digital
project was like yeah like just like you
said quite lightly there john
they're gonna be biased aren't they they
like you but they probably like you if
they're gonna give you
they're always gonna have that spin
where they're gonna give you more
positivity than they should do
whereas if you interview strangers our
potential customers they're gonna be raw
they're gonna cut out the bs and get
straight to the point you would have
thought yeah you should really seek out
people that you don't know maybe they're
friends or friends of friends they're in
your network or maybe they're just cold
outreach but um i would very much stress
that you have to be very cognizant of
removing bias from that
ideating process otherwise it's just
going to be a self-reinforcing
um narrative um yeah yeah yeah
makes sense makes sense uh yes and then
i think
what what what was the second part of
your question i can't i can't
yes we're talking about bringing up an
mvp so you mentioned customer interviews
and then we were talking about
kind of actually well my in my sense i
was saying how do you know it's
it's going to have a long term value and
i guess that kind of wraps up what
you've
what you're getting to now yeah i think
you know for an mvp
you have to um
[Music]
you really have to put some thoughts
into
you well you can't let me start with
this you can't build everything flexibly
you can't build everything with with
the mindset that ultimately you can just
change it later right because
that just means you're just going to
scrap it and start over again which by
the way if that's the
that's the solution you know you
shouldn't feel ashamed of doing it you
know there's the whole
sunk cost fallacy but i think you have
to be thoughtful around what are the
bones
that we know are not going to change you
know for this business to be
successful so um for us
right we you know bundling
transportation and sort of warehousing
storage was going to be very critical
and so that's something that we could
build in a little more robust way in
a foundational way because we knew that
for the business to work or for the
thesis to have any hope of
surviving that those were going to have
to be things that uh
that stood the test of time you know
there are other things like
the the front uh you know the marketing
side
the sales side that you really want to
leave
flexible and you want to leave you know
the ability to test
to test and change because how you go to
markets
what copying i know you know this as a
digital marketing expert
you know what's the copy uh what's the
intent
you know if the user where do people get
hung up in the user experience
those are things that you really don't
want to be wedded to
you know there are some things where you
really need to sort of stick your you
know foot in the
foot in the ground and you know take a
strong position on but
for the rest you need to have strong
opinion
have strong opinions but hold them
weakly means reserving the right to
change your mind or change it at a later
date
but yes you you definitely do need to
get an mvp of at some point because i
mean
the biggest thing is just getting
started you know a lot of companies fail
from the whiteboard
you know and ideation to you just got to
take that first step
like call that developer call web choice
uk
right and just like get an estimate like
just see what it's actually going to
cost to do it because by taking those
steps
you'll actually get the ball rolling
where we're just talking about it that
can be an endless
endless loop that ultimately no action
ever really comes from
yeah and we could dedicate a whole
podcast just to pre-planning
um but we'll try and we'll try and kind
of get into some
some more in terms of the marketing and
running themselves as well in a bit
um i do have a question though this um
when we're at the stage of interviewing
so we've done our friends and family
then we want to get on some cold
prospects
potential customers that don't know
about our business so they're not going
to show us love they're giving us the
blunt truth
if we are getting pretty negative
feedback and we've interviewed a
considerable people
even though we love this project we love
this idea we love this business
and we perhaps spent a lot of spare time
working on it
should we ditch it and move on to
something that the market do like
uh yeah i think so i mean i think
there's two options you just ditch it
fully and go in a completely different
direction or you really need to go back
to the drawing board
uh just sort of think about you know for
some people
you know the idea is at a stage of i
know there's a hole in this market
right i know there's an underserved
piece of this market i know there's a
pain
point and maybe the way that you chose
to attack it and pitch it just isn't the
right way
you know if you're confident that there
is a problem to be solved
you may just go back to the drawing
board and think about uh a different way
of approaching it
um you know if not it's you know the
feedback you're getting is
yeah it's like sort of annoying but you
know i just do this
or you know i've got this uh you know
i've got this workaround or
you know i found someone that solves
this problem that might be a sign that
uh you need to go
you know let it let it let it go and and
and that could be
painful right especially if you've
invested a lot of time a lot of mental
energy
i would say though look on the bright
side to anyone who's ever done that
simply going through the exercise of
thinking about the company interviewing
people it's often going to stimulate
your brain and your thinking such that
your idea is either going to be much
much more improved
or it's going to lead you to something
better that ultimately
um was meant to be right it was better
off it was better off for you so i
wouldn't
you know the other big thing with
entrepreneurial you know pursuits
is you really have to have a good way of
reconciling
failure because you will fail all the
time i mean you're literally
uh trying to discover something that's
novel
and there's no playbook there's no way
to uh
there's no rules to follow those
management books don't don't listen to
them right they don't really provide any
practical feedback
you're ultimately just going to have to
have confidence in yourself but you know
the ability to
recognize that failure is really just a
stepping stone to
a success that'll happen later on that
you just can't see yet
good no i like it i like it um okay
so let let's pretend in this instance
that our idea has got some some good
feedback we've not had to
ditch it how taking that first leap john
i mean do you think that providing we've
we've got some kind of funding whether
we've bootstrapped it fully and we've
got perhaps our own money saved up or
we've got friends and families or a
combination or we've gone the
venture capitalist route and they've
given us a big sum of money yeah do we
just
go all in with ourselves if it's just us
or our partner and just
start throwing money at marketing itself
or do we
keep it small so perhaps we keep our
nine-to-five job and we slowly work on
it in the evenings and weekends what
would you advise if is there one route
no
no there isn't there isn't one root um
you know some people are fortunate
enough to be able to
uh quit and go full time um
you know those people will likely not be
able to take a salary
for six to nine months i was fortunate
enough to have had a
a nice career you know prior there and
uh and that saved a lot of money so i
was able to
um quit go full-time you know i did get
a job waiting tables
uh at a mexican restaurant uh you know
from like 6 p.m to 11 for the first
couple months just so i didn't burn
through
all my personal capital i do think that
if you can
uh if you can devote all your time to it
and you can make the numbers work i
would certainly recommend doing that
um you know you just may have to you
know reconcile yourself to rice and
beans you know for
for like six to nine months but
sometimes hey that's what it takes like
it's not it's not easy
um you know yeah so what i would say is
if you're fortunate enough to be able to
do that
you know if you can find a way to make
it work if you can get some roommates or
something you know i think devoting all
your energy into it will definitely be
useful
um it also depends on you know really
the kind of company that
you're trying to build you know if it's
really more technology
focused and you don't need to have an
operations team
you can might be able to get by with
doing that with doing that part time
because you really want to get an mvp up
and just see
are users interested in this you know
you can somewhat handle
support you know quote unquote yourself
but if you're trying to build kind of a
brick and mortar
uh meat and potatoes business like like
like the one that i've started that has
a lot of
moving parts it would be really it would
have been almost impossible to do that
while while having a full-time job so um
in any case yeah i think it depends on
your situation but
um if you can go all in you know and not
uh
not fear for your life you know that uh
that that's what i would recommend doing
yeah yeah yeah got it man so
let's say we we have gone all in what
are some of the first things we nailed
it
got to nail down and appreciate this is
going to be subjective depending on
the sector the vertical you're in yeah
um
but what are some of the the kind of
core basics that we've got to think
about in terms of lining up our
marketing
lining up ourselves and bringing this
thing to market really
yeah yeah no i think you know i read
something the other day that like
40 to 50 percent of like young startups
revenue goes towards like google and
facebook
right for like google ads and that sort
of thing which is sort of a
ridiculous number um but there is a
reason why
those avenues are are used well
um you know traditional sort of brick
and mortar marketing whether it's tv
radio billboard signage those typically
only work at scale
right so like if anybody's trying to
pitch you on radio ads or
targeted tv or you know whatever it is i
would say just put your blinders on and
don't
don't move forward with that you know at
the early stages
you really are testing you may you don't
even know what terms of phrase
right are going to resonate with your
customers so you know any sort of big
expensive campaigns
you want those nailed down you want
confidence that you know what people are
going to respond to
that you can credibly sort of advertise
and on all those sorts of things
i would definitely recommend starting
small
you know the other thing to consider is
that if you you know all of a sudden
blow out some big marketing campaign and
you have all these customers in your lap
that may be a bad thing if you're not
ready to handle it um because
ultimately you only get you know one
shot maybe two at impressing your
customers and
if you ruin your brand by you know
filling up the funnel and then not being
able to execute
um you know you might you might shoot
yourself on the foot you know
before the thing even gets off the
ground so i would i would dip my i would
dip my toe in something like
uh like google ads i would test you know
wildly different you know ad copies i
would
keep those cost per clicks really low
see what see what tends to convert
and that way you can sort of conserve
you know conserve your capital and use
it and use it wisely once you've got a
good decent sample size
you know call it a month maybe you know
a month and a half you know something
like that
um you know then then that's when i
would start you know pouring pouring the
dollars into it but definitely
definitely start small because you can
get yourself into trouble if you uh
if you just open the floodgates without
having a good handle on it
yeah yeah yeah so talking about things
like ads
so i mean is is that is that kind of
what you did and what you recommend john
is obviously with group things like
google adwords it's something that
you can measure well you can do a good
test of and you can understand what your
cost per click is going to be per ad
what your cost per acquisition or cost
per lead or cost per sale depending on
what you're offering whether it's a
product or a service service-based
business
sure are there other things that people
should obviously marketing is a massive
term
yeah as is sales outreach should should
we be looking to do some kind of cold
outreach at the same time whilst we're
looking at kind of perhaps
paid spend to get inbound or yeah is it
is it come to the point where that's
in your opinion not not worthwhile yeah
if you're if you're uh if you're
if your target clients are b2b i ideally
you're selling into businesses
you know and you're the founder you are
your company's own best salesman
um you know i yeah yes you want to get
you know the funnel filled with
marketing but um
cold outreach networking i mean it all
sounds really old-fashioned but
um you know there are things you could
do online like using linkedin
you know uh sam i know you put out a
great guide
for linkedin you know outreach and
what's the best way to do that
been extremely helpful for us but i
would definitely
you know use that as a way to you know
network
at the end of the day having you know
ceo co-founder
you know just anything with a c in front
of it is going to
let you have conversations that maybe
you you know
can't get if you're you know a senior
account executive
sales and marketing so i think you know
founders really underestimate their
ability to
go out and sell and really you are your
company's best salesman you're going to
be more passionate about the company
than anybody you hire you're going to
know the thesis
you know better than anyone that you
could ever hire because it is your baby
right you have built it and so you can
speak about it the way that
a parent right or a proud mom or dad
you know cares about their kid winning
winning a trophy so i think that that
kind of enthusiasm is contagious
you know i would say get out of the get
out of the office you need to get out
there and network with people
you know covet's starting to subside so
that's a little bit easier now but i
would look for him
you know networking opportunities it
could be your local chamber of commerce
you know again it sounds old-fashioned
but those those kinds of relationships
really play dividends and in the b2b
side all it takes is one
you know all you need to do is is get
the right client
on board the right customer who wants to
take an interest in you and uh you're
off to the races
i probably shouldn't say this but one of
my best clients to date
believe it or not was back when i was
working for a start-up
this is probably spinning back about
four years ago um
and this wasn't web choice this was
before i came back to web choice as a
co-founder
as a co-owner sorry and um this was cold
calling so i was cold calling like a few
hours every day literally until i was
dripping in sweat and
skipping lunch breaks and all that good
stuff because i had no cash at the time
so i was just trying to get as many
sales meetings i could and one of the
best
clients i've still got i still work with
um
i spent thousands and thousands with us
on various web projects that's from a
cold call
from a relationship that i started on a
cold call met them a couple times in
in london and just over time that
relationship's nurtured we still
digital marketing is still our best way
to get clients inbound but that's just
funny that that cold call
over time played off dividends um so
sometimes like you say these one
unusual way of reaching out to people
whether it's networking whether it's
something else
can pay off yeah yeah you know i think
you know one other thing that i didn't
mention
is when you're starting something you
like you say you're skipping lunch
you're calling all the time there is a
little bit of a desperation factor
especially if you're bootstrapped
i mean vc funded either you've only got
a certain amount of runway right i mean
you've really got to make it happen
people fall into the trap of you know
what can you do for me
you know me me me me me i'm reaching out
to people and saying like help
me you know save me right
like uh at the end of the day it is a
transactional relationship
the best thing that you can do when
you're selling and cold calling
is offer them something in return you
know
every call should end with like thank
you so much for the call
what can i do for you how can i help you
what can i provide you
and it can be like very big things or it
can honestly be really
small things i think it plays into human
psychology
you know we were meeting with you know
one of our peers here in the atlanta
market
um and it's a very sort of um incestual
it's not the right word but like
we share clients you know everybody kind
of knows who's clients or who's
you know if i've got a warehouse i have
a very finite
box right into which i can fit clients
at some point i'm going to run out of
space right i'm going to run out of
capacity and so
i want to be able to call you know
someone down the street
and say hey i can share your business i
can share some business
um with the hope that they're ultimately
going to do it in
return or uh you know we haven't had
that problem yet in the central we've
had to send one of our customers
somebody else's way
but there are more mature companies who
might be able to throw you
a bone right as a small startup and so
you can try to do something for them in
this one particular example
we had found this incredible vendor you
know that
does a very specific piece of the
logistics process
really well they've got a comparative
advantage they do it more cheaply and
better than anyone else
you know we asked them what they were
spending on the specific process and it
was like 4x what
we were spending and so we said you know
hey have you guys tried
this particular company's called j and e
have you guys tried j and e
right for for for your lumping and
breaking loads and that sort of thing
you know this is their price for
container we're super impressed with
them
and you know someone from j e went over
to
you know one of our peers you know they
initiated a contract like two days later
and almost a week after that you know
they called us up and said thank you so
much for that introduction
it's helped us tremendously you know
what i think actually
i do have something coming up that i can
send you right and so
you know you really have to think about
what are those ways even
small ways it could be something as
small as recommending a vendor
you know to help something and not
necessarily expect something in return
now of course you're playing the long
game and you're hoping for something
that comes in return
but the more that you can provide
value and help either your clients or
potential prospects or so on and so
forth
just the human psychology of uh wow they
really did me a solid
you know i see them as equal you know
maybe to
you know the other vendors in the space
but you know what they really helped me
out and did me a solid so i'm going to
send them my
business again that sounds old-fashioned
um
you know really the techniques for sales
and marketing have changed in terms of
just
reach technology you know all those
sorts of things but
the foundational psychology of it
is the same and i think people in our
generation and i say hour i'm 31 right
i'm a millennial
um i think people really can lose sight
of that they just think if i can
you know get clicks to site and i can
you know look at all these metrics which
are very important
it's extremely foundational it's
extremely important but you can't lose
sight of
ultimately uh you have to be in your
decision maker's head and you have to
provide value to those
decision makers i love that that point
about
giving without expectations so even if
you can't help someone today
giving them perhaps some useful advice
or literally asking how i can help you
or giving them as useful resource i um i
never used to do that
but i did um like recently i'm lucky
that i've got a lot of resources so i do
a lot of linkedin i've
obviously got the podcast so quite often
i can point people maybe to perhaps
certain podcast episodes that might be
of use to them
or hand them a useful guide or most the
chances are your business has probably
got something that might help them so if
they say look i need
actually yeah i could do with help with
xyz think about if you've got an
existing resource or think about if you
can point them to someone of your
partner
company in your case like you said john
and that is a really good way to get
your foot in the door
and the chances are once if they do find
that i've used they'll come back
and it'll it'll help you in the long run
so that's yeah people people are shocked
at how effective it is i mean i think i
can probably hear the skepticism right
and all of the listeners right now
just saying like you know so like you're
telling me i can just win business by
um you know helping out a client without
any expectation in return and the answer
is yes
and there's data to prove it it's my
personal experience
proves that i think your personal
experience you know
sam proves it as well so i think um
you know there's a place for numbers and
data and quant
and that's my background and i believe
in it and you have to have it and it's
really table stakes but i would advise
young founders to
even if you don't think you can give
much there's always something that you
can give there's always a favor you can
pull there's always uh
there's always something that you can do
that's ultimately gonna make you more
cool we're coming up to time john but
we'll probably get you back on in the
future
to cover some of these topics in a bit
more detail wow that went by fast
so um yeah we've touched on kind of the
things you need to think about before
you grow the business we talked about
the early stages we talked about think
about marketing
um when it comes to when it comes to
growth
when it comes to perhaps looking to take
on your first sales guy or whether you
take on a market or whatever you decide
to go on
how do you know when it's the right time
when is when is too soon or when it's
too late
yeah that's a that's a good question so
that's a great question so in our
experience
and this goes actually back to pivoting
and listening to the clients so we
originally conceived our company to be a
direct to consumer
uh self-storage i go pick up your um
personal effects could be couch a couch
a bed a
dresser you know clothes and we're gonna
go pick that up and come into storage
what eventually started happening where
businesses would just find us
organically and just think and they kept
telling us like
you know this isn't exactly what i need
but what you have you know which is you
know innovative software that can track
my inventory
uh a warehouse trucks and the ability to
manage those logistics
you know no one's really serving us like
i'm having to piece together
all these different vendors to kind of
do this and we just started thinking
like okay there's
there's something here it eventually
grew to about 15 of our revenue business
b2b
you know as opposed to direct to
consumer which we originally conceived
the company to be
at that point you know we started
thinking okay
b2b this is growing without us really
even trying
let's see what happens if we can really
juice it you know with
with a salesperson i guess the operative
lesson for that is
you know i would refrain from hiring a
sales resource
until you feel like you've really nailed
that value that value proposition so
like
we talked earlier in the podcast of
being open to changing your mind
to um you know maybe letting go of the
original concept and moving in the
direction of what clients
want i would think only at that point
where
you know you really feel confident that
you've nailed that you've listened to
the market
this has legs and i know who exactly i
need to sell into
that's when you hire your first sales
person because you know again as we
stated earlier
as the founder you are your best sales
person
at the end of the day you can speak to
the company at a level really that
nobody else can and you need to really
use yourself
as a testing ground to find that niche
find that
uh you know offering to the market and
then
once you feel confident that you've
nailed it then it's time to go ahead and
you know really you know you hear the
phrase add fuel to the fire
you know you have to have a fire first
so once you're
once you're confident in that that's
when you bring in sales you know that's
when you can start pumping the marketing
uh but there's a lot of work that
foundational work that has to go into
place
uh before you do that because at the end
of the day you
when you do that there's no going back
you know you likely have very little
cash in the bank
uh you likely have very little runway
left and you have to
execute and hit it or you know you're
going to be
you're going to be going to zero really
really fast so
it's not to scare anyone it's you know
to scale to scale and grow you have to
have sales you have to have marketing
but you can get into trouble
if you do it be before you're ready so
really really put in the time yourself
as the founders you know or the early
people in the company to
you know find that niche test all of
your hypotheses
and then once you've once you're
confident that's when you that's when
you start pouring it on
yeah i love that point and i love the
point that the founder or the founders
are the best salespeople because they
know the product inside out
they've researched the market they know
what the usp is they know what the
benefits are they know how the problem
it fixes so they literally know
everything about it so i think a lot of
founders of perhaps so some that i've
spoke to perhaps skeptical about
skeptical about selling themselves and
they think that they need a sales team
straight away
so i think that's one of the big myths
that needs to be really kind of busted
and
yeah you if you're not willing to get
your hands dirty you're not going to
succeed
just you know and that's the other thing
that if you're coming from a large
company
like i did you have supporting
infrastructure right you have people
that
handle right things that you never even
thought of
um and as a founder you know if you're
thinking that you're gonna try to
bootstrap a company but you're just
gonna like sit in the office and
you know direct people and just you know
act the way you did at your prior job
you know i guarantee you that
that you're going to fail you've got to
get out there
you've got to put in the time and it's
really hard to because when you're
running the company you're worried about
operations you're worried about finance
you're worried about money in the bank
but you have to get out there
in a sales effort and sell and sell the
company
sell yourself sell the vision people are
drawn to that too i mean if you are
people intuitively i think admire
entrepreneurial you know pursuits
and you can argue whether they should or
not but i think that you know as a rule
i think they do
they admire the risk-taking the
confidence the vision and i think you'll
be surprised at the amount of people
that will be willing to talk to you
uh the amount of people that will be
open with you and you know really want
to help you if you can
you know help them um so i again i would
think all
all founders should know that you know
the best the best thing you can do
is is get out there early on save the
money
save the cash validate your hypothesis
validate your idea
uh and then only after that has happened
then you start you know hiring a team
love it solid advice john and with that
thank you very much for coming on the
show really really enjoyed the the chat
massively useful for myself and i'm sure
everyone that's tuned in
please do tell us more sir about how we
can learn from you how we can connect
with you
and how we can do business with you yeah
absolutely so
uh we uh we're located our url is
www.porter-logistics.com
we are located in atlanta georgia one of
the logistics
biggest logistics hubs in the u.s
we do client we do business with clients
from all over the world whether it's the
uk
middle east africa
really any anywhere across the globe
you can reach out to me at john j ohn at
porter porter-logistics.com again that's
john
at porter-logistics.com if you're
interested in
logistics you know feel free to reach
out but you know i'm always up to just
talk about
sales marketing um you know
us football uh you know the the correct
football
uh around the globe i i should say i
don't listen to him
yeah and that no no i know i'm i'm
saying you you guys have it correct
yeah that's right no i don't i do
soccer's catching on here in the us
you know i'm telling you i'm telling you
we're not quite premier league
yet but uh we're getting we're getting
better so
hopefully hopefully in our lifetimes
we'll see some transatlantic
you know real real matchups but uh but
yeah please feel free to reach out happy
to uh
happy to help any young founders if you
need advice or if you think you may want
to do business also happy to discuss
that as well
nice one john we'll put all of those
links in the episode notes that'll be
available at businessgrowth.marketing
and with that i want to thank you once
again sir really appreciate the
conversation
yeah absolutely thanks for having me and
uh have a good rest of your evening
no worries dude if you enjoyed the show
be sure to hit subscribe for business
growth show wherever the heck you get
your podcast
we interview two business leaders each
and every week to provide actionable
tips across marketing
across sales all with the goal to help
you grow your revenue and grow your
business and we will catch you on the
next episode
cheers for tuning in thanks everyone bye